---
layout: post
title: "OpenCL notes_3 data types and device memory"
description: "OpenCL notes_3 data types and device memory"
categories: [OpenCL]
tags: [parallel, OpenCL]
redirect_from:
  - /2018/01/18/
---

## 1. Kernel functions
The `clSetKernelArg` function sets argument for kernels, but there are no function that access a kernel's return value. This is because kernels don't have return values -- every kernel functions returns `void`
```
__kernel void func_name(args) {
    ...
}
```
A kernel function can only access and return data through its arguments, and if you attempt to compile a kernel without arguments, some compilers will give you an error. **all pointers passed to a kernel must be preceded by an address space qualifier.**
This tells the device what address space the argument should be stored in. `__global__, __constant__, __local, __private`
```
char msg[16];
cl_mem msg_buffer;
msg_buffer = clCreateBuffer(context, CL_MEM_WRITE_ONLY, sizeof(msg), NULL, &err);
clSetKernelArg(kernel, 0, sizeof(cl_mem), &msg_buffer);
```
After the kernel is enqueued and the device executes the function, the host application accesses the buffer data using `clEnqueueReadBuffer`.
```
clEnqueueReadBuffer(queue, msg_buffer, CL_TRUE, 0, sizeof(msg), &msg, 0, NULL, NULL);
```
## 2. Double type
The double data type can be accessed if the device supports the `cl_khr_fp64` extension. From the host, you can determine whether this extension is available by calling `clGetDeviceInfo`. If the extension is supported, you can enable this capability in the kernel with the following `pragma` statement:
`#pragma OPENCL EXTENSION cl_khr_fp64 : enable`
Here is one code example:
```
#ifdef FP_64
#pragma OPENCL EXTENSION cl_khr_fp64 : enable
#endif 

__kernel void double_test(__global float* a, __global float* b, 
						  __global float* out) {
#ifdef FP_64
	double c = (double)(*a / *b);
	*out = (float)c;
#else
	*out = *a * *b;
#endif
}
```
## 3. Vector data types
Vectors resemble arrays in that they contain multiple elements of the same type. But there are two main differences:
(1) A vector of a given type can only contain a specific number of elements.
(2) When a vector is operated upon, every element is operated upon **at the same time**.

```
float a[4], b[4], c[4];
for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
    c[i] = a[i] + b[i];
}
float4 a, b, c;
c = a + b;
```
Elements within a vector are called **components**
vector types:
`charn, ucharn, shortn, ushortn, intn, uintn, longn, ulongn, floatn`
The OpenCL standard requires that device compilers know the limitations of the target device and divide large vectors into sizes that the device can operate on. 
### 3.1 preferred vector width
`clGetDeviceInfo` accepts a parameter that identifies what information is being sought. 
```
cl_uint char_width;
clGetDeviceInfo(device, CL_DEVICE_PREFERRED_VECTOR_WIDTH_CHAR, sizeof(char_width), &char_width, NULL);
```
```
float4 data_vec = (float4)(1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0);
float4 data_vec = (float4)(1.0);
float2 a_vector = (float2)(1.0,1.0);
float2 b_vector = (float2)(2.0,2.0);
float4 c_vector = (float4)(a_vector, b_vector);
```
### 3.2 Indexing
#### 3.2.1 Numerb-index
```
char16 msg = (char16)('H','e','l','l','o','P','r','o','g','r','a','m','m','e','r','!');
char a = msg.s0; // a = 'H'
char d = msg.sC; // 0xC d = 'm'
char8 e = msg.s01234567; // e = "HelloPro"
msg.s7E = (char2)(msg.s1);
msg.s5 = 'O';
```
#### 3.2.2 Letter indexing
```
float4 coord = (float4)(3.0, 5.0, 7.0, 9.0);
float a = coord.x; // a = 3
float2 e = coord.xy; // e = (5.0, 7.0)
float4 h = coord.wwwx; // h = (11.0, 11.0, 11.0, 5.0)
coord.x = 2.0;
```
#### 3.2.3 HI, LO, EVEN, ODD
```
ushort8 shorts = (ushort8)(0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70);
ushort4 a = shorts.hi; // a = (40, 50, 60, 70)
ushort4 b = shorts.lo; // b = (0, 10, 20, 30)
ushort4 c = shorts.even; // c = (0, 20, 40, 60)
ushort4 d = shorts.odd; // d = (10, 30, 50, 70)
```
## 4. Device Model
compute unit: processing core. 
each compute unit can be occupied by a work-group. 
There are many work-item in one work-group. 
global memory: stores data for the entire device and can be read from and written to.-->`__global`
constant memory: similar to global memory, but is read-only-->`__constant`
local memory: stores data for the work-item in a work group --> `__local`
private memory: stores data for an individual work-item
--> `__private`
`global/const` memory can be read from and written to by both host and device. 
When the host apllication transfer a buffer object to the device, the buffer's data is stored in `global/constant` memory. 
global memory is commonly the largest memory region on an OpenCL compliant device, but it's also the slowest for work-itm to access.
Work-items can access local memory much faster (~100x) than they can access global/constant emmory. (help to store intermidiate result)
```
__kernel void kernel_func(__global float *f) {
    __global uint* x = 5;
    f = (global float*)x;
}
```
The `__local` qualifier can be used for kernel arguments and variables declared within a kernel, **but local variables cannot be directly initialized.**
`__local float x = 4.0` will cause an error. You should uuse `__local float x; x = 4.0`

### 4.1 Memory Alignment
You can control data alignment with the `aligned` attribute, which can only beused when the data is declared. The `aligned` keyword must be preceded by `__attribute__`:
```
short x __attribute__ ((aligned(4)))
```
### 4.2 Local and Private Kernel Arguments
```
clSetKernelArg(cl_kernel kernel, cl_uint index, size_t size, const void* value);
```
`value` identifies the data that will be sent to the device as a kernel argument. So far, the example code has always set this to point to a memory object, adn the corresponding kernel argument must be decalred as `__global` or `__constant`. 
If you transfer data to a kernel using a memory object, you cannot set the kernel argument specifier to `__local`. If you attempt to do this, you will receive a runtime error whose code is `-50`: `CL_INVALID_ARG_VALUE`. Since host cannot access local memory directly. 
But a host can tell the device to allocate local memory for a kernel argument by setting the last argument of `clSetKernelArg` to `NULL`. 
```
clSetKernelArg(kernel, 0, 16 * sizeof(float), NULL);
__kernel void proc_data(__local float* nums, ...)
{

}
```

Unlike local data, a kernel's private data can be initialized by a host application. To configure this in code, the host needs to make the last parameter of `clSetKernelArg` a pointer to primitive data: `int*`, `float*`, `char*` and so on.
```
int num = 4;
clSetKernelArg(kernel, 0, sizeof(num), &num);
__kernel void proc_data(int num, ...) {

}
```
It has no space specifier like `__global` and `__local`. This means that `num` will be stored in the device's private space and each work item will have its own copy. Second, `num` isn't a pointer, private kernel arg cannot be references, they must be simple primitives like `int` and `float`. 

Private kernel arguments must be primitives, but they don't have to be scalars.
```
float nums[4] = { 0.0f, 1.0f, 2.0f, 3.0f };
clSetKernelArg(kernel, 0, sizeof(nums), nums);
__kernel void proc_data(float4 values, ...) {

}
```
