---
layout: post
title: "UNP_1"
description: "UNP_2"
categories: [C++]
tags: [C, Network]
redirect_from:
  - /2018/01/20/
---

## Chapter 4 Socket Control

### 1. `socket` function

    #include <sys/socket.h>
    int socket(int family, int type, int protocol);
The `AF_` prefix stands for `address family` and the `PF_` stands for `protocol family`. 

### 2. `connect` function
The `connect` function is used by a TCP client to establish a connection with a TCP server. 

    #include <sys/socket.h>
    int connect(int sockfd, const struct sockaddr* servaddr, socklen_t addrlen);
`sockfd` is a socket descriptor returned by the socket function. The second and third arguments are a pointer to a socket address structure and its size. The socket address structure must contain the IP address and port number of the server. 
In the case of a TCP socket, the `connect` function intiates TCP's three-way handshake. The function returns only when the connection is established or an error occurs. 

### 3. `bind` function
The `bind` function assigns a local protocol address to a socket. The protocol address is the combination of either a 32-bit IPv4 address or a 128-bit IPv6 address, along with a 16-bit TCP or UDP port number. 

    #include <sys/socket.h>
    int bind(int sockfd, const struct sockaddr* myaddr, socklen_t addrlen);
A process can `bind` a specific IP address to its socket. The IP address must belong to an interface on the host. 
If we specify a port number of 0, the kernel chooses an ephemeral port when `bind` is called. But if we specify a wildcard IP address, the kernel does not choose the local IP address until either the socket is connected or a datagram is sent on the socket. 
With IPv4, the wildcard address is specified by the constatnt `INADDR_ANY`, whose value is normally 0. 

    struct sockaddr_in servaddr;
    servaddr.sin_addr.s_addr = htonl(INADDR_ANY);

### 4. `listen` function
When a socket is created by the `socket` function, it is assumed to be an active socket, which is a client socket that will issue a `connect`. The `listen` function converts an unconnected socket into a passive socket. The second argument to this function specifies the maximum number of connections the kernenl should queue for this socket. 

    #include <sys/socket.h>
    int listen(int sockfd, int backlog);
If a three-way handshake completed normally, the entry moves from the incomplete queue to the end of the completed queue. When the process calls `accept`, the first entry on the completed queue is returned to the process, or if the queue is empty, the process is put to sleep until an entry is placed onto the completed queue. 

### 5. `accept` function
`accept` is called by a TCP server to return the next completed connection from the front of the completed connection queue. 

    #include <sys/socket.h>
    int accept(int sockfd, struct sockaddr* cliaddr, socklen_t* addrlen);
The `cliaddr` and `addrlen` arguments are used to return the protocol address of the client. If `accept` is successful, its return value is a brand-new descriptor automatically created by the kernel.. We call the first argument to `accept` the `listening socket`, and we call the return value from `accept` the `connected socket`. 

### 6. `fork` and `exec` function

    #include <unistd.h>
    pid_t fork(void);
 `fork` is called once but return twice. `fork` returns 0 in the child. All descriptors open in the parent before the call to `fork` are shared with the child. 
 THe `exec` replaces the current process image with the new program file, and this new program normally starts at the main function. 
 The differences in the six `exec` functions are:
 - whether the program file to execute is specified by a filename or a pathname
 - whether the arguments to the new program are listed one by one or referenced through an arrary of pointers
 - whether the environment of the calling process is passed to the new program or whether a new environment is specified.
 
Code:

    #include <unistd.h>
    int execl(const char* pathname, const char* arg0, ..., 0);
    int execv(const char* pathname, char* const argv[]);
    int execle(const char* pathname, const char* arg0, ..., 0);
    int execve(const char* pathname, char* const argv[], char* const envp[]);
    int execlp(const char* filename, const char* arg0, ...);
    int execvp(const char* filename, char* const argv[]);

### 7. Concurrent Servers
```
    pid_t pid;
    int listenfd, connfd;
    listenfd = Socket( .. );
    Bind(listenfd, ...);
    Listen(listenfd, LISTENQ);
    for ( ; ; ){
        connfd = Accept(listenfd, ...);
        if ((pid = Fork()) == 0){
            Close(listenfd);
            doit(connfd);
            Close(connfd);
            exit(0);
        }
        Close(connfd);
    }
```
Every file or socket has a reference count. This is a count of number of descriptors that are currently open that refer to this file or socket.