---
layout: post
title: "V8"
description: "V8"
categories: [V8]
tags: [V8]
redirect from:
  - /2018/11/11/
---

## V8
[youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FrufJFBSoQY)
hiddlen class group objects which have same structure. 
Javascript objects constructed in the same way should get the same hidden class. 
```
function Point(x, y) {
	this.x = x;
	this.y = y;
}
var p1 = new Point(0, 1);
var p2 = new Point(2, 3);
```
Hidden classes provides enough structure to use optimization techniques from more static object-oriented language.  -- inline caching
three inline cache states:
- uninitailized
- monomorphic
- megamorphic

In the megamorphic state a cache of generated stubs is used
In line caches are cleared on full garbage collections
- allows us to get rid of unused code stubs
- give all inline caches a new chance to hit the monomorphic case. 

efficient memory management
**precise generational garbage collection**
two generations
(1) young generation is one small, contiguous space that is collected often
(2) old generation is divided into a number of spaces that are only occasionally collected
- code space
- map space
- large object space(>8k)
- old data space

type of garbage collection
(1) scavenge
- copying collection of only the yound generation
- pause times 2ms
(2) full non-compacting collection
- mark-sweep collection of both generations
- free memory gets added to free lists
- might cause fragmentation
- pause times 50ms
(3) full compaction collection 
- mark-sweep-compact collection of both generation
- pause-time 100ms

[youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HULaOA5oJMY&index=55&list=PL65pp6Tpk692lL85jvoOAT_e9Yuzz_nwA)
`const arry = [1, 2, 3]`
`PACKED_SMI_ELEMENTS`
smi: small integer
`arry.push(4.56)`
`PACKED_DOUBLE_ELEMENTS`
`arry.push('x')`
`PACKED_ELEMENTS`

[garbage collection](http://www.jayconrod.com/posts/55/a-tour-of-v8-garbage-collection)
goal: identify dead regions
live object: pointed to by a root object or another live object. 
**root object** are live by definition(objects pointed directly by V8 or web browser)
heap organization
**New-space**: Most objects are allocated here. New-space is small and is designed to be garbage collected very quickly, independent of other spaces.
**Old-pointer-space**: Contains most objects which may have pointers to other objects. Most objects are moved here after surviving in new-space for a while.
**Old-data-space**: Contains objects which just contain raw data (no pointers to other objects). Strings, boxed numbers, and arrays of unboxed doubles are moved here after surviving in new-space for a while.
**Large-object-space**: This space contains objects which are larger than the size limits of other spaces. Each object gets its own mmap'd region of memory. Large objects are never moved by the garbage collector.
**Code-space**: Code objects, which contain JITed instructions, are allocated here. This is the only space with executable memory (although Codes may be allocated in large-object-space, and those are executable, too).
**Cell-space, property-cell-space and map-space**: These spaces contain Cells, PropertyCells, and Maps, respectively. Each of these spaces contains objects which are all the same size and has some constraints on what kind of objects they point to, which simplifies collection.

 To take advantage of this behavior, V8 divides the heap into two generations. Objects are allocated in new-space, which is fairly small (between 1 and 8 MB, depending on behavior heuristics). Allocation in new space is very cheap: we just have an allocation pointer which we increment whenever we want to reserve space for a new object.
 Objects which have survived two minor garbage collections are promoted to old-space. Old-space is garbage collected during a mark-sweep or mark-compact (major garbage collection cycle), which is much less frequent.